The principal teachings. Principal teaching is Dzogchen teachings. That is what Dzogchen teaches.
And Dzogchen teaching has two groups, as we heard always. It is called "Tuchu practices" and "Toga
practices".
Among these two, this is "Tuchu practices". That, as the title says too, at the very beginning,
this is the song of the "Tuchu practices".
And now, "Tuchu practices" is one simple way to tell, is "meditation".
Meditation, now, I have to meditate. And in order to meditate, in order to do this "Tuchu
meditation", the post is "Foundation".
That is very important. I am not going to talk too much about these foundations, but because you
all know,
Mundo practicing is the foundation practices. Within the Dzogchen practices, also, we had so many
times of opportunity.
We went through this, one after another, those are Rushing practices. Out Rushing, in a Rushing,
all those practices is the Mundo practices.
Even though they are so powerful, so special practices, to compare with the Dzogchen practice, they
are named as the Rushing practices of the Mundo practice, of the Mundo, of the Dzogches.
So, but how ever, even we are finishing the Mundo practices, and I would like to encourage those
who didn't complete the Mundo practice, please finish that.
Really, make that our resolution, try and finish. This is our practice. We are not just doing,
driving some extra unnecessary packaging along with our beautiful practices.
That is the practices. This is the method of Dzogchen. I said the other day, in the Keghiramu,
there are many times, what Dzogchen means?
Great completion practices. We completely have everything. We are not solving it out, and we are
solving it out.
And we are not really practicing Dzogchen, because we are still all of the Habakhi patterns.
We are still from the world, the Habakhi patterns. Even when we are in the spiritual world or Dzogc
he teachings, we still apply our old Habakhi patterns, trying to apply the regulation with our ego-
cleans, with our duality, with our Habakhi patterns.
That is not right. We try to release, remove transcendent of the ego-cleaning, duality, old Habakhi
patterns.
Therefore, the Mundo is so important. And therefore, when they teach, they always say, "What?"
Even the Mundo has two that we all know. We all know. It is like post-Mundo, and then second Mundo,
the Prince of the Mundo.
First Mundo is precious human life. Think of the precious human life. Second is environmental.
And third is thinking of the cause and effort, the result that they have at them.
And fourth is samsara as difficulty challenges. Difficulty challenges. Those are important.
As I said the other day, if we take that, if we take that, it really makes ourself more soft-
hearted, more wise, more decent, more common sense.
It will bring more common sense. And also, practicals. Practicals. That.
And also, we are not going, that means we are not going to rest in times. Rest in our time, rest in
our apprentice times.
Times. And we are going to make something meaningful to ourselves, to others. So, all this is
important.
And for those reasons, every teaching in the teach says, every session, every session this teaching
says,
you must reflect this post-portray of the mind, precious human body, impermanent cause, cause and
effort, and the result is inevitable, and samsara is difficult.
And for those reasons, this is, if we have time, for example, not time, we should do, or we should
do this.
And this bed three, for example, in this open booklet, we have this. This is like, this is like
great teachings of the past.
Cause, cause, and shanti deva's teachings. What is it? The foremost, the foremost, sorry. This bed
three or bed four, sorry.
The bed is in bed three, but I think it's in bed four.
Bed four has opposed the contemplative well, that extremely difficult to obtain, the Venerable Sh
anti Deva says,
this freedom and the richness are hard to get, by which the aim of the beings are completion.
If I fail now to achieve their benefit, how could this great reach ever come again?
Can't you think of this? We're not just making a false statement and kind of making up these things
.
Truly, it is so, so rich.
And how this great Master, Karma Chiang He said, one of the His teachings, that we went last few
years ago, in our institute, said,
among all the six beings, to be born as a human being is very precious, to be born as a human being
is precious.
Among all the human beings, to be born as perfectly, what's called, perfectly all the senses, that
we have all the perfect senses.
It's very precious. Everything senses are good. Our eyes are good, ears are good, nose are good,
tongues are good, bodies are good,
intelligence are good. It's so precious. It's not just a chain by accident.
Among all that having, the one who has eaten endowment is so precious.
Eating endowments, all lucky. At freedom, ten lucky. It's so precious.
Among all that even eating endowments, the we have recognized that it's so precious.
To recognize is so precious. Recognize.
Whenever we have this, maybe we call it, but not recognize.
If they don't recognize, then we become one. Or, particularly, there may be more suffering.
Instead, enjoying of the eating endowments, more suffering.
Spoiling that. And then, among even, it says we're not just recognized, but we're using, applying
this.
How precious. How beautiful. We're really taking meaning of our precious lives.
Think of those, those the great masters said. One of them, it's not just that they said, this is a
reminder to us.
Ask what we are, what we have, this luckyness. Therefore, life is so precious.
Life is so special. Life is so important.
This is a vehicle to get the beautiful goals that will benefit to me and to all the beings.
To ourselves, to all the beings. We don't this. This is the, we won't go far.
And so, all these things. And then, of the impermanent.
And also, cause and effort, in the effort of all these things.
Kind of reflect this. And impermanent heresity.
Again, in this great teaching.
Third corner, sorry, here. This is from Buddha's teaching.
It's Buddha's own home. It's the very form.
Post-coronapolitan wealth that externally, no, this is in the second corner.
Second corner, the impermanent of life that extensively dispels sudarsis.
The three rains are the impermanent like the clothes of autumns.
The birth and the death and the wandering is like the views of the place.
The life of the beings pass just like the lightning through the sky.
Passes quickly like the water descending, descending in steep mountains.
This is how the life is. It's impermanent.
This is not just making our sad or something kind of funny story or all these things.
Truly, it is like so fragile is moving fast.
And how we look to our lives, how many things have changed?
How many things have shifted? And how many things are we going to have?
It's nothing that is called hope. Nothing going to change.
For those reasons, the great Master, very known as Ashwagosh, very famous Master, he said,
"Take in the world." He said, "Take in the world, take in the heavens."
If you see anyone who's still here that never changed,
or know your source, or know you heard something, know you dropped something,
nothing, there's nothing is ever going to last.
This is what everything is that we are applying to include ourselves.
For that reason, time is special. When time is with us in all these things,
enjoy, enjoy the families, enjoy the friendships, enjoy the practices,
bring more joy, happiness, peace, instead again, worry, this and that things.
Of course, life, those things come. But that's what we practice.
Trying to really handle those situations in Iceland.
"Oh, I'm not going to allow this. This one, up another. This is the Buddha's teaching."
"Buddha's teaching, and you did it."
And then, in the model of let me have, we do those prayers.
Just kind of this is, when you do these things, it will make ourself, what?
It is both two things. The British are thinking of the British lives,
and in parliament, makes ourself more, more kind of practical, not going to rest.
Rest our time. We make time more useful, more beautiful, beautiful.
And thinking of the cause and effect of a resort inevitable, what it does,
it will become, our activities will become more powerful.
No matter how big and small, it well returns back.
It has cause, it has consequence. It's no matter whether it's good or bad.
Therefore, we start thinking of the cause and effect and result in the inevitable.
Our activity will become more nice, more positive, more beautiful.
So we become very thoughtful.
And we start thinking of the samsara, the difficulty challenge.
We will bring more open understanding.
We're not just only ourself that experience the trouble.
Wisely, we're going to look to every direction.
Even though we're difficult, it's how we're experiencing, but we're not going to hold.
We're not, that's not going to parachute ourself.
Instead, even more courage, more strength, more commitment, more love, more compassion.
How this happens, therefore, I'm going to do something good things that way.
So therefore, it will make more openness in the mind.
Open, yeah.
So those all, with those thoughts, now, I mean, ever you can do this.
Because since we are practicing, practicing and we are for the retreat,
and they have already reflected those thoughts.
His practice is not just practicing when we're sitting in the meditation.
Always, the great master, Jangul Kundra, Sri Rama, is not just him.
But always, trying to cooperate every over for our activities with practice.
For activities, for chaotic routine our activities.
What are the four routine our activities?
The other, human beings.
Beings.
Sitting, sleeping, standing, and walking.
Those are the casual, routine activities of the sentient beings, or the human beings.
This is four activities.
And always, the Buddha Chitji said, "Bjola, naan ghee bhi sui."
Four activities.
That is routinely we do.
Sit, sleeping, standing, and walking.
That's it.
We connected that all and for, kind of cooperated that all.
And during the meditation, we did meditate in zooki, zooki meditate.
Meditate.
So that means meditating.
Meditating time, in practice, this period can be, not can be, you can divide into two.
Meditating instead, post-meditation status.
Meditating instead, we meditate in zooki.
Or we meditate on the Buddha, Vigilizing, deity, reciting mantras, so forth.
That's meditating instead.
And post-meditating.
It's the second hour after that practice.
And post-meditating, what are we going to take?
We're going to bring that practice, what we practice, bring it into the post-meditating
and at the same time, what are we going to do?
This always says four things.
That great master, his holy Dune, said to you, this four, four things.
Remember, the impermanent, bodhicitta, the pure perception, and impermanent.
That also means, sorry, I should say this, everything is magic, it's dream-like.
Everything is magic, the dream-like.
Compassion and the compassion of the bodhicitta, the devotions, devotions, and then respect and
appreciation.
Those four, four are, if we're trying to reflect that, when we are in post-meditating status.
Try to bring those.
In permanent, that means meditating, that's what I think I joined after the practice.
This is not just I joined it, but this is a kind of traditional lineage.
And every time session, when it ended, they joined, that prayer is in monasteries.
I joined, after we finished our dream meditation, I joined.
Karma, rabra, manmeti, yuma, sepa, chor, mala, nauticitta, luzi, chun, et cetera.
I joined it, and we have that isolated.
This is, can you give me?
Sorry, you have to get up.
This is the Buddha teaching.
As a star, as fire rain, lamp, magic display, dew, bubble, drink, lightning, and clothes,
you should, thus you should see all the condition things.
That's all condition.
These are the examples of this.
These are the odd examples of this.
Examples, this is not just an example, chol, riyada level, everything is in these states.
They call it Buddhism.
Or riyada, really, everything is in these states.
We don't see this.
This is everything.
Everything is in a dream.
Everything is in a magic.
Magic is exactly. To remind this in post-meditation, you see this.
This is not a way we're going to see something sadly, pathetically,
we're going to see this kind of dream.
With devotion, with understanding, with thought, it's all dream.
I'm dream, this is dream.
I'm just now in the dream status, one of the dreams.
This is when you start thinking that also it's really helpful.
If we're doing practice, dream yoga.
Dream yoga practice is always, you can think this, not just that dream yoga is dream yoga,
but this is dream.
Dream and this is what.
What that does, what that helps you by doing this practice.
It helps the sharpening of our grasping and clinging.
It's the brain, exactly where these relatives are.
Relatives are.
So those are all important.
With this thought, then we begin to not, I mean, with those kind of beginning ways,
and then we're practicing.
That's a true practice.
A true practice.